14.5 Challenge - fix the expirements

1 - The Sith Lords are concerned that their recruiting slogan, "Give In to Your Anger,"
isn't very effective. Darth Vader develops an alternative slogan, "Together We Can
Rule the Galaxy." They compare the slogans on two groups of 50 captured droids each.
In one group, Emperor Palpatine delivers the "Anger" slogan. In the other, Darth Vader
presents the "Together" slogan. 20 droids convert to the Dark Side after hearing
Palpatine's slogan, while only 5 droids convert after hearing Vader's. The Sith's
data scientist concludes that "Anger" is a more effective slogan and should continue to
be used.

Ans. Problem 1 - Emporer Palpatine and Darth Vader are two different Sith lords
delivering two different lines. It would be a more effective A/B test if both lines
were delivered by the same Sith lord. The drones they use for the expirement have all
captured. These drones are not reflective of the galactic population. It woulkd be
more effective to use this slogan throughout the planetary system that the Empire
controls.

2 - In the past, the Jedi have had difficulty with public relations. They send two
envoys, Jar Jar Binks and Mace Windu, to four friendly and four unfriendly planets
respectively, with the goal of promoting favorable feelings toward the Jedi. Upon
their return, the envoys learn that Jar Jar was much more effective than Windu: Over
75% of the people surveyed said their attitudes had become more favorable after
speaking with Jar Jar, while only 65% said their attitudes had become more favorable
after speaking with Windu. This makes Windu angry, because he is sure that he had a
better success ratethan Jar Jar on every planet. The Jedi choose Jar Jar to be their
representative inthe future.

Ans. Problem 2 - Jar Jar Binks and Mace Windu went to two different types of planets:
friendly for Jar Jar and unfriendly for Mace Windu. This is a bias in aasignment to
conditions, since there is a failure of randomness. It would be better if both Jar Jar
and Mace Windu went to the same types of planets as each other. Windu become angry at
hearing that Jar Jar was more effective which indicates Observer bias. It would be
better if Windu was a neutral party and didn't form conclusions aheda of the expirement.

3 - A company with work sites in five different countries has sent you data on employee
satisfaction rates for workers in Human Resources and workers in Information Technology.
Most HR workers are concentrated in three of the countries, while IT workers are equally
distributed across worksites. The company requests a report on satisfaction for each
job type. You calculate average job satisfaction for HR and for IT and present the
report.

Ans. Problem 3 - There are five different countries surveyed. It would be more effective to get the
data on all five seperately and then compare the data on a whole to see if it falls
victim to Simpson's Paradox. HR workers are located within 3 countries primarily.
It would be more effective to just receive the results from those three countries.
It's unclear if the survey is going out to the same numbers of employees in both
departments or if all employees in both departments will be getting the survey.
It would be better if both sets of employees were in the same sized sample.

When people install the Happy Days Fitness Tracker app, they are asked to "opt in"
to a data collection scheme where their level of physical activity data is
automatically sent to the company for product research purposes. During your interview
with the company, they tell you that the app is very effective because after installing
the app, the data show that people's activity levels rise steadily.

Ans. Problem 4 - There is selection bias when users are asked to opt in to a data
collection scheme. It would be better to randomly collect data on certain users,
and to hide the data collection information in the terms and conditions. This population
May be more active than the average user, so an opt in seems bad. There does not seem
to be a set amount of time that the expirement is running, so it would be better to have
a set amount of time

5 - To prevent cheating, a teacher writes three versions of a test. She stacks the three
versions together, first all copies of Version A, then all copies of Version B, then
all copies of Version C. As students arrive for the exam, each student takes a test.
When grading the test, the teacher finds that students who took Version B scored higher
than students who took either Version A or Version C. She concludes from this that
Version B is easier, and discards it.

Ans. 5 - THere is not randomness in who gets each test, but the tests are instead given
out from top to bottom. Perhaps a AP class is down the hall, while an easier class is
next store, so the kids from the easier class arrive first. It would be better to shuffle
the tests together randomly so there is no contestual bias.

